Welcome back to the computer
forensics path.
Course six module four.
The collection of digital evidence.
When we're talking about collecting or
seizing evidence,
we need to document who
collected the evidence.
Where was the evidence found?
When, I mean date and
time was the evidence found?
What is the evidence?
So model serial number and
why is this evidence being seized?
When you intake the evidence when you're
on scene evidence officer like I said,
you always want one person assigned as
the evidence person, when they take this
evidence in, they need to write on a piece
of paper or type into the computer.
The answers to all these questions.
Who where, when what and why?
Because trust me, when this case goes to
court or you have your company hearing,
you're not going to remember
the answer to all these questions.
And if you're in a court of law this
is called authenticating the evidence.
And we talked about that if you
can't authenticate the evidence,
it's not going to be allowed to court.
When we seize a computer or
any other piece of digital evidence for
that matter, the items that are attached
to it are called sub items and
these could be attached
external storage devices,
they could be manuals, papers,
adapters or other hardware.
These were all sub items.
And we're going to talk about how
you tagged these, so that we don't
get confused later throughout this path,
Photos First, Photos First.
I can't say that enough.
I can't tell you how many times
I've been on a search warrant and
people just run in and
start moving stuff around.
You need to have everybody have
their assignments ahead of time.
Make sure you put the brakes on.
If you're the case person and
take these photos,
we need to take the photos of
evidence prior to being collected.
We've got to show that evidence
as it was found in its location.
We're going to note the location.
We're going to know the state
of the evidence on or off.
We're going to note prior damage to
the evidence and at least one person,
possibly more depending on
the size of the area searching and
how many people are searching.
But at least one person should be assigned
to take photos and keep a photo log.
This is going to become very important
when this case goes to court or
when this hearing happens.
This is an example of photos taken.
You want to take an overall photo.
If you look at the photo on the right,
that would be called an overall photo.
Now, if you look at the photo of the left,
that's close up photo,
you need to be able to see how these
devices all connected together.
We need to show how this computer connects
to these external drives, connects to this
other computer, connects to this Camp V
switch, connects to these monitors.
There's yeah USB ports, USB drives.
So you have a lot going on in
this picture on the right.
And you want to be able to reassemble
that system if you had to.
So you want to take those overall photos
showing the pieces in relation to each
other and you want to take the close up
photos showing the connectors in which
port all these connections are going
into and where they're going.
So take many photos,
you can never take too many photos.
Logging evidence.
I can't stress this enough.
You're going to have one person assigned
to document evidence collection
who found the evidence,
what they found that I mean make model and
serial number where they
found it when they found it.
Date and time and any sub items
that are attached to the device.
You want to make sure you label the
evidence, when you label the evidence you
should include the case of the incident
number of course the date and time,
a short description of the item.
But you know make model serial number and
the name of the person who
collected the evidence for
authentication purposes at a hearing or
in the court of law.
When you package the evidence, make
sure you take over all the disk drives.
If we're talking about a computer or
something that does have just drives, make
sure you take over all the disk drives,
the USB ports or openings for SD cards.
The reason being is you don't want anybody
to be able to insert anything in these
drives and alter your evidence.
You want to use paper or
anti static bags over exposed contacts.
If you have exposed contacts,
say, like a USB connection,
you want to make sure that you put
some type of anesthetic bags or
paper over those exposed contact points.
If you use plastic,
consider moisture in exposed contacts.
So when you use plastic you don't
want is plastic on anything wet and
you don't want to use plastic or
exposed contacts.
You want to use paper.
Take your evidence seals and
when you do this,
initial the tape, date and
time, right the case or
the incident number very important,
in our next module,
we are going to talk about how
we transport and store digital evidence.